CRF250R/RX/RWE
OWNER’S MANUAL
This manual should be considered a permanent part of the vehicle
and should remain with the vehicle when it is resold.
This publication includes the latest production information available
before printing. Honda Motor Co., Ltd. reserves the right to make
changes at any time without notice and without incurring any
obligation.
No part of this publication may be reproduced without written
permission.
The vehicle pictured in this owner’s manual may not match your
actual vehicle.
© 2024 Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
THIS VEHICLE IS DESIGNED AND MANUFACTURED FOR
COMPETITION USE ONLY AND IS SOLD “AS IS” WITH NO
WARRANTY. IT DOES NOT CONFORM TO FEDERAL MOTOR
VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS AND OPERATION ON PUBLIC
STREETS, ROADS, OR HIGHWAYS IS ILLEGAL.
STATE LAWS PROHIBIT OPERATION OF THIS VEHICLE EXCEPT IN
AN ORGANIZED RACING OR COMPETITIVE EVENT UPON A
CLOSED COURSE WHICH IS CONDUCTED UNDER THE AUSPICES
OF A RECOGNIZED SANCTIONING BODY OR BY PERMIT ISSUED BY
THE LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION.
FIRST DETERMINE THAT OPERATION IS LEGAL.
OPERATOR ONLY, NO PASSENGERS.
This vehicle is designed and constructed as an operator-only model.
The vehicle load limit and seating configuration do not safely permit
the carrying of a passenger.
READ THIS MANUAL CAREFULLY.
Welcome
Congratulations on your purchase of a new  |  Be aware that off-road racing/motocross is a
Honda vehicle. Your selection of a Honda  |  physically demanding sport that requires
makes you part of a worldwide family of  |  more than just a fine vehicle. To do well, you
satisfied customers who appreciate Honda's  |  must be in excellent physical condition and
reputation for building quality into every  |  be a skillful rider. For the best results, work
product.  |  diligently on your physical conditioning and
practice frequently.
Your vehicle is a high performance racing
motorcycle that utilizes the latest off-road
racing/motocross technology and is intended
for competition use in sanctioned, closed-
course events by experienced riders only.
To ensure your safety and riding pleasure:  |  ● The following codes in this manual
● Read this owner's manual and  |  indicate each destination.
competition handbook carefully.  |  ● The illustrations here in are based on the
● Follow all recommendations and  |  CRF250RX LA type.
procedures contained in this owner's
manual and competition handbook.  |  Destination Codes
● Pay close attention to safety messages  |  Code Destination
contained in this owner's manual,  |  CRF250RX
competition handbook, and on the  |  ED  |  European direct sales, United Kingdom,
vehicle.  |  Philippines, South Africa, Madagascar,
Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda,
Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Zambia, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Angola,
Mauritius, Republic of Seychelles
U  |  Australia, New Zealand
LA  |  Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Bolivia,
Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay, Guyana,
Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa Rica,
Honduras, Nicaragua, Dominican
Republic, Panama, Bermuda, Belize,
Jamaica, Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago
MX  |  Mexico
Code Destination  |  Code Destination
CRF250R  |  CRF250RWE
ED  |  European direct sales, United Kingdom,  |  ED  |  Italy, United Kingdom, Spain, France,
Philippines, South Africa, Madagascar,  |  Portugal, Netherlands, Austria, Czech
Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda,  |  Republic, Hungary, Belgium, Poland
Democratic Republic of the Congo,  |  U  |  Australia
Zambia, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Angola,
*The specifications may vary with each locale.
Mauritius, Republic of Seychelles, Vietnam
U  |  Australia, New Zealand
GS  |  United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia,
Qatar, Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Lebanon,
Jordan
LA  |  Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Chile,
Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay,
Guyana, Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa
Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Dominican
Republic, Panama, Belize, Jamaica,
Trinidad and Tobago
MX  |  Mexico
A Few Words About Safety
Your safety, and the safety of others, is very
3 DANGER
important. Operating this vehicle safely is an
important responsibility.  |  You WILL be KILLED or SERIOUSLY
To help you make informed decisions about  |  HURT if you don’t follow instructions.
safety, we have provided operating
procedures and other information on safety  |  3 WARNING
labels in this owner's manual, and  |  You CAN be KILLED or SERIOUSLY
competition handbook. This information  |  HURT if you don’t follow instructions.
alerts you to potential hazards that could
hurt you or others.  |  3 CAUTION
Of course, it is not practical or possible to
You CAN be HURT if you don’t follow
warn you about all hazards associated with
instructions.
operating or maintaining a vehicle. You must
use your own good judgement.
Other important information is
You will find important safety information in a  |  provided under the following titles:
variety of forms, including:
NOTICE Information to help you avoid
● Safety labels on the vehicle
damage to your vehicle, other
● Safety Messages preceded by a safety alert
property, or the environment.
symbol  |  and one of three signal words:
DANGER, WARNING, or CAUTION.
These signal words mean:

Contents
Vehicle Safety  |  P. 2
Operation Guide  |  P. 16
Maintenance  |  P. 35
Troubleshooting  |  P. 54
Information  |  P. 60
Specifications  |  P. 71
Vehicle Safety
This section contains important information for safe riding of your vehicle.
Please read this section carefully.
Safety Guidelines ................................................. P. 3
Image Labels......................................................... P. 6
Safety Precautions............................................. P. 10
Riding Precautions ............................................ P. 11
Accessories & Modifications........................... P. 14
Safety Guidelines
Safety Guidelines  |  Before Riding
Vehicle Safety
Make sure that you are physically fit, mentally
Follow these guidelines to enhance your safety:
focused, and free of alcohol and drugs. Check
● Perform all routine and regular inspections
that you are wearing an approved helmet and
specified in this owner's manual and
protective apparel.
competition handbook.
● Stop the engine and keep sparks and flames  |  Take Time to Get to Know Your Vehicle
away before filling the fuel tank.
Because every vehicle is unique, take time to
● Do not run the engine in enclosed or partly
become thoroughly familiar with how this one
enclosed areas. Carbon monoxide in
operates and responds to your commands
exhaust gases is toxic and can kill you.
before placing your machine, and yourself, in
Always Wear a Helmet  |  competition.
It's a proven fact: helmets and protective  |  Ride within Your Limits
apparel significantly reduce the number and
Never ride beyond your personal abilities or
severity of head and other injuries. So always
faster than conditions warrant. Fatigue and
wear an approved helmet and protective
inattention can impair your ability to use good
apparel. 2 P. 10
judgement and ride safely.
Never Carry a Passenger
There are no handholds, seat, or footrests to
carry a passenger.
Continued 3
Safety Guidelines
Don't Drink or Use Drugs and Ride  |  Lithium-Ion (Li-Ion) Battery
Vehicle Safety
Alcohol or drugs and riding don't mix. Even one  |  If you smell an unusual odor coming from the
alcoholic drink can reduce your ability to  |  lithium-ion (li-ion) battery, park your vehicle in a
respond to changing conditions, and your  |  safe place outside and away from flammable
reaction time gets worse with every additional  |  objects, then stop the engine. Have your vehicle
drink. The same is true for drug use. Don't drink  |  inspected by your dealer immediately.
or use and ride, and don't let your friends do it
either.
Keep Your Honda in Safe Condition
Maintaining your vehicle properly is critical to
your safety. A loose bolt, for example, can cause
a breakdown in which you can be seriously
injured.
4
Safety Guidelines
Carbon Monoxide Hazard  |  3 WARNING
Vehicle Safety
Exhaust contains poisonous carbon monoxide, a
Running the engine of your vehicle
colourless, odorless gas. Breathing carbon
while in an enclosed or even partially
monoxide can cause loss of consciousness and
enclosed area can cause a rapid build-
may lead to death.
up of toxic carbon monoxide gas.
If you run the engine in a confined or even
partly enclosed area, the air you breathe could  |  Breathing this colourless, odorless gas
contain a dangerous amount of carbon  |  can quickly cause unconsciousness and
monoxide.  |  lead to death.
Never run your vehicle inside a garage or other
enclosure.  |  Only run your vehicle's engine when it
is located in a well ventilated area
outdoors.
5
Image Labels
Image Labels
Vehicle Safety
The following pages describe the label  |  Read instructions contained in Owner's
meanings. Some labels warn you of  |  Manual and Competition Handbook
potential hazards that could cause serious  |  carefully.
injury. Others provide important safety
information. Read this information carefully  |  Read instructions contained in Competition
and don't remove the labels.  |  Handbook and Shop Manual carefully. In
the interest of safety, take the vehicle to be
If a label comes off or becomes hard to  |  serviced only by your dealer.
read, contact your dealer for a replacement.
DANGER (with RED background)
You WILL be KILLED or SERIOUSLY HURT if
There is a specific symbol on each label.
you don't follow instructions.
The meanings of each symbol and label are
WARNING (with ORANGE background)
as follows.
You CAN be KILLED or SERIOUSLY HURT if
you don't follow instructions.
CAUTION (with YELLOW background)
You CAN be HURT if you don't follow
instructions.
6
Image Labels
BATTERY LABEL
Vehicle Safety
DANGER
• Carefully read this manual.
If this product is handled incorrectly, it may lead to damage to
the vehicle, heat generation, explosion, fire, loss of vision or
burns.
• Keep this product away from fires and high temperature heat
sources.
Do not bring or cause fires (matches, lighters, cigarettes, sparks
at terminals or from welding machines or grinders) close to the
battery.
Doing so may cause heat generation, explosion or fire.
• Do not allow children and other people to touch a battery
unless they understand proper handling and hazards of the
battery very well.
• Do not dismantle, modify or solder the main unit and battery
terminals.
Doing so may cause leakage, heat generation, explosion, fire or
loss of vision due to leaked electrolyte.
If electrolyte gets into one's eye, immediately wash the eye with
plenty of water, and receive treatment from an eye specialist
(ophthalmologist) as soon as possible.
Continued 7
Image Labels
RADIATOR CAP LABEL
Vehicle Safety
DANGER
NEVER OPEN WHEN HOT.
Hot coolant will scald you.
Relief pressure valve begins to open at 1.1 kgf/cm 2 .
CRF250R/RX
REAR CUSHION LABEL
GAS FILLED
Do not open. Do not heat.
ED type only
FUEL LABEL
Unleaded petrol only
ETHANOL up to 10 % by volume
8
Image Labels
CAUTION LABEL IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Vehicle Safety
• Operator only. No passengers.
• This vehicle is sold as is without warranty, and the entire risk as to
quality and performance is with the buyer. READ OWNER’S MANUAL.
• This vehicle is designed and manufactured for competition use only.
• It does not conform to federal motor vehicle safety standards and
operation on public streets, roads, or highways is illegal.
• State laws prohibit operation of this vehicle expert in an organized
racing or competitive event upon a closed course which is conducted
under the auspices of a recognized sanctioning body or by permit
issued by the local governmental authority having jurisdiction.
• First determine that operation is legal.
9
Safety Precautions
Safety Precautions  |  3 WARNING
Vehicle Safety
Not wearing a helmet increases the
Protective Apparel
chance of serious injury or death in a
Make sure that you are wearing an approved
crash.
helmet, eye protection, and other appropriate
riding gear.
Make sure that you always wear an
# Helmet  |  approved helmet, eye protection, and
Safety-standard certified, high-visibility, correct  |  protective apparel.
size for your head
● Must fit comfortably but securely, with the  |  # Protective Gear
chin strap fastened
Whether you’re practicing to improve your skills
● Approved eye protection
or riding in competition, always wear an
approved helmet, eye protection, and proper
protective gear.
10
Riding Precautions
Riding Precautions  |  Parking
Vehicle Safety
CRF250RX
Running-in Period  |  ● Park on a firm, level surface.
During the first operating day or 25 km (15  |  ● If you must park on a slight incline or loose
miles) of running, follow these guidelines to  |  surface, park so that the vehicle cannot
ensure your vehicle's future reliability and  |  move or fall over.
performance.  |  ● Make sure that high-temperature parts
● Avoid full-throttle starts and rapid  |  cannot come into contact with flammable
acceleration.  |  materials.
● Avoid hard braking and rapid down-shifts.  |  ● Do not touch the engine, muffler, brakes
● Ride conservatively.  |  and other high-temperature parts until they
cool down.
This same procedure should be followed each
time when:  |  # Parking with the Side Stand
1. Stop the engine.
● Piston is replaced
2. Push the side stand down.
● Piston rings are replaced
3. Slowly lean the vehicle to the left until its
● Cylinder is replaced
weight rests on the side stand.
● Crankshaft or crank bearings are replaced
4. Turn the handlebar fully to the left.
u Turning the handlebar to the right
reduces stability and may cause the
vehicle to fall.
Continued 11
Riding Precautions
Refuelling and Fuel Guidelines
Vehicle Safety
Follow these guidelines to protect the engine
and fuel system:
● Use only unleaded petrol.
● Use the recommended octane number.
Using lower octane petrol will result in
decreased engine performance.
● Do not use fuels containing a high
concentration of alcohol. 2 P. 70
● Do not use stale or contaminated petrol or
an oil/petrol mixture.
● Avoid getting dirt or water in the fuel tank.
12
Riding Precautions
Honda Selectable Torque Control  |  as well as your skills and condition, when
applying throttle.  |  Vehicle Safety
When the Honda Selectable Torque Control
(Torque Control) detects rear wheel spin during
Always use the recommended tyres and
acceleration, the system will limit the amount of
sprockets to ensure correct Torque Control
torque applied to the rear wheel based on the
operation.
Torque Control level selected.
Torque Control will allow some wheel spin
during acceleration at the lower Torque Control
setting levels. Select a level that is appropriate
for your skill and riding conditions.
Torque Control does not work during
deceleration and will not prevent the rear wheel
from skidding due to engine braking. Do not
close the throttle suddenly, especially when
riding on slippery surfaces.
Torque Control may not compensate for rough
track conditions or rapid throttle operation.
Always consider track and weather conditions,
13
Accessories & Modifications
Accessories &  |  Do not pull a trailer with, or attach a sidecar to,
Vehicle Safety  |  your vehicle. Your vehicle was not designed for
Modifications
these attachments, and their use can seriously
We strongly advise that you do not add any  |  impair your vehicle's handling.
accessories that were not specifically designed
for your vehicle by Honda or make  |  Do not attempt to modify the vehicle to carry a
modifications to your vehicle from its original  |  passenger. The subframe was not designed to
design. Doing so can make it unsafe.  |  carry the additional weight of a passenger.
3 WARNING
Improper accessories or modifications
can cause a crash in which you can be
seriously hurt or killed.
Follow all instructions in this owner's
manual regarding accessories and
modifications.
14
Vehicle Safety
15
Parts Location
Operation Guide  |  Throttle grip
Front brake lever
Engine oil fill cap
Rear brake pedal
Engine oil inspection
window
16
Clutch lever
Fuel fill cap ( P.33 )
Battery ( P.51 )  |  Operation Guide
Left side cover ( P.53 )
Main fuse ( P.58 )
Fast idle knob
(Engine idle speed) ( P.28 )
Shift lever ( P.32 )
CRF250RX Side stand
17
Indicators
PGM-FI malfunction indicator lamp (MIL) (amber)
Operation Guide  |  Comes on briefly when the engine is started.
If it comes on while engine is running: ( P.56 )
Engine mode indicator (blue)
Indicates the currently selected mode by blinking the
mode number once when the engine is started.
Indicates the currently selected mode. ( P.20 )
Launch control system indicator (purple)
Indicates the condition of HRC-Launch Control System.
( P.25 )
Torque control indicator (green)
Indicates the currently selected mode by blinking the
mode number thrice when the engine is started. The
Torque Control indicator (green) comes on while the
system is operating.
18
Switches
Engine mode select button ( P.20 )
Operation Guide
Start button ( P.28 )
Torque control button ( P.23 )
Engine stop button ( P.31 )
Continued 19
Switches (Continued)
Operation Guide # Engine Mode  |  Engine mode indicator (blue)
You can change the engine output
characteristic depending on track
conditions by using the engine mode
select button.
● PGM-FI mode 1: standard setting
● PGM-FI mode 2: smooth setting
(reduce throttle response from the
standard setting)
● PGM-FI mode 3: aggressive setting
(increase throttle response from the
Engine mode select button
standard setting)
20
# Current Mode
Start the engine and push the engine mode  |  The engine mode indicator also indicates the  |  Operation Guide
select button with your vehicle stopped. The  |  currently selected mode by blinking the mode
engine mode indicator under the engine  |  number once when the engine is started.
mode select button indicates the selected
PGM-FI mode 1:
mode by blinking the mode number in blue
The blue indicator blinks
3 times.
once 3 times.
Engine mode indicator (blue)
PGM-FI mode 2:
The blue indicator blinks
twice 3 times.
PGM-FI mode 3:
The blue indicator blinks
thrice 3 times.
If the engine mode indicator stays on or does
not come on when it should, have your dealer
Engine mode select button
check it for problems.
Continued 21
Switches (Continued)
Mode Selection
Operation Guide  |  PGM-FI mode 1
a Start the engine.
b With your vehicle stopped and the throttle
closed, push and hold the engine mode
select button for 1 or more seconds.
PGM-FI mode 2
Make sure that the fast idle knob is pushed
in. ( P.28 )
If the fast idle knob is pulled out, the engine
mode will not change.  |  PGM-FI mode 3
c Release the engine mode select button. The
engine mode indicator will indicate a
selected mode by the number of times the
indicator (blue) blinks.
d Repeat steps 2 – 3 until the desired mode is
indicated.
22
Honda Selectable Torque Control
Torque Control level can be selected or  |  # Current Mode
turned on/off, according to your skill and  |  Start the engine. The Torque Control
track conditions by using the Torque Control  |  indicator indicates the selected mode by  |  Operation Guide
button.  |  blinking the mode number 3 times.
Torque Control mode  |  Rear wheel slip
The Torque Control indicator (green) comes  |  1  |  High
on while the system is operating.  |  2  |  Middle
3  |  Low
Torque Control indicator (green)
OFF  |  No operation
Torque Control mode 1:
The indicator blinks once 3
times.
Torque Control mode 2:
The indicator blinks twice 3
times.
Torque Control button
Torque Control mode 3:
The indicator blinks thrice 3
times.
Torque Control off:
The indicator does not light up.
Continued 23
Honda Selectable Torque Control (Continued)
# Mode Selection
1. Start the engine.  |  Torque Control mode 1
Operation Guide 2. Press the Torque Control button to select
a mode level. The mode changes every
Torque Control mode 2  |  Torque Control off
time you press the button.
u The Torque Control indicator (green) will
indicate a selected mode by the number  |  Torque Control mode 3
of times the indicator blinks.
u The last mode selected will be saved.  |  : Pressing the Torque Control button
: Pressing and holding the Torque Control button
u The factory setting is mode 2.
u Torque Control can be turned on and off
by press and hold the Torque Control
button.
24
HRC-Launch Control System
The HRC-Launch Control System reduces slip  |  u The system may become disabled if you
and assists for an effective start by  |  snap the throttle excessively.
temporarily decreasing the rev limit when  |  u If the idle speed is low, the system may  |  Operation Guide
starting.  |  not go into standby. Set the idle speed
to standard rpm.
You can select the rev limit level while the  |  u To disable the system, quickly press the
system is operating according to your skill  |  start button. The launch control system
indicator stops blinking.
and track conditions.
Start button
# To change the level
a Start the engine and wait more than 2
seconds.
b Close the throttle completely, press and
hold the start button while pulling the clutch
lever in until the launch control system
indicator blinks (purple).
u The system goes into standby, and the
launch control system indicator indicates
the selected level by blinking (purple).  |  Launch control system indicator
u From standby, the control to decrease
(purple)
the rev limit starts.
Continued 25
HRC-Launch Control System (Continued)
c Press and hold the start button. The level  |  Rev limit
Total number of times the
changes every time you press and hold.  |  during
Level  |  launch control system
launch
Operation Guide u The level selected last is saved.  |  indicator blinks
control
u The factory setting is level 2.
1  |  High  |  1
d To continue using the system, refer to step 2
2  |  Middle  |  2
in “To operate the system” (next page). To
3  |  Low  |  3
disable the system, quickly press the start
button. The launch control system indicator
stops blinking and the system is disabled.
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Pressing and holding the start button while the
launch control system is in standby
26
# To operate the system  |  u When the launch control system
a Perform steps 1 and 2 in “To change the  |  operates, these following conditions will
level”.  |  disable launch control:  |  Operation Guide
b Shift into 1st or 2nd gear.  |  ● Vehicle is in 3rd gear
c When launching, open the throttle halfway  |  ● The throttle is completely closed
or more. The system operates.  |  d Make sure that the launch control system
u The reduced rev limit is controlled and  |  indicator is off. If it is not off, the system is
will gradually return to normal in a few  |  not disabled. Quickly press the start button
seconds. Once the rev limit returns to  |  to disable the system.
normal, the system is disabled.
u The launch control system indicator
comes on (purple) while the system is
operating.
u If you open the throttle halfway or more
before starting, the control system stops
before starting and there is no effect.
u If you close the throttle immediately, the
system may not operate.
27
Starting the Engine
Start your engine using the following  |  To restart a warm engine, follow the
procedure.  |  procedure for “Warm Engine Starting”.
Operation Guide  |  NOTICE
• If the engine does not start within 5 seconds,
wait 10 seconds before trying to start the
engine again to recover battery voltage.
• Extended fast idling and revving the engine
can damage the engine and the exhaust
system.
• Snapping the throttle or fast idling for more
than about 5 minutes may cause exhaust
pipe discolouration.
28
This vehicle does not have a start inhibitor.  |  Cold Engine Starting
Pull the clutch lever all the way in when  |  a Shift the transmission to neutral.
pressing the start button.  |  b If the temperature is 10 °C (50 °F) or below,  |  Operation Guide
u The vehicle can move when pressing the  |  pull the fast idle knob fully up.
start button if the transmission is in gear and  |  c With the throttle completely closed, pull the
the clutch lever is not pulled.  |  clutch lever all the way in and press the start
button.
3 WARNING  |  d About a minute after the engine starts, push
Pressing the start button when the  |  the fast idle knob back all the way to fully
transmission is in gear and the clutch  |  off. If idling is unstable, open the throttle
lever is not pulled in can cause the  |  slightly.
vehicle to move suddenly, which can
cause serious injury or death.
Always pull the clutch lever in when
pressing the start button.
Continued 29
Starting the Engine (Continued)
Warm Engine Starting  |  When starting the engine, the PGM-FI
a Shift the transmission into neutral.  |  malfunction indicator lamp (MIL) (amber) will
Operation Guide b With the throttle completely closed, pull the  |  stay on for 2 seconds, then go off. Then, the
clutch lever all the way in and press the start  |  engine mode indicator (blue) indicates the
button.  |  current engine mode for 0.8 seconds, then
goes off. If the PGM-FI malfunction indicator
Starting the engine excessively charged  |  lamp (MIL)/engine mode indicator does not
with fuel by throttle blipping or other  |  come on or go off when it should, have your
reasons  |  dealer check it for problems.
a Shift the transmission into neutral.
b With the throttle fully opened, pull the clutch
lever and press the start button for 5
seconds to discharge excessive fuel from the
engine.
c With the throttle completely closed, pull the
clutch lever all the way in and press the start
button.
PGM-FI malfunction indicator lamp
(MIL) (amber)/
# If Engine Will Not Start ( P.55 )  |  engine mode indicator (blue)
30
When you stop the engine
# Normal Engine Stop
Operation Guide
a Shift the transmission into neutral.
b Push and hold the engine stop button until
the engine stops completely.
Engine stop button
# Emergency Engine Stop
To stop the engine in an emergency, push
and hold the engine stop button.
31
Shifting Gears
Your vehicle transmission has 5 forward
gears in a one-down, four-up shift pattern.
Operation Guide
32
Refuelling
Steering stem nut  |  Fuel type: Unleaded petrol only
Breather tube  |  Fuel octane number: Your vehicle is
designed to use Research Octane Number  |  Operation Guide
(RON) 95 or higher.
CRF250RX
Tank capacity:
8.0 L (2.11 US gal, 1.76 Imp gal)
CRF250R/RWE
Tank capacity:
Filler neck  |  6.3 L (1.66 US gal, 1.39 Imp gal)
Fuel fill cap  |  bottom
# Refuelling and Fuel Guidelines ( P.12 )
Be careful not to damage the fuel pump
while filling the fuel tank.  |  Opening the Fuel Fill Cap
Avoid overfilling the tank. There should be no  |  a Pull the breather tube out of the steering
fuel in the filler neck.  |  stem nut.
b Turn the fuel fill cap counterclockwise and
remove it.
Continued 33
Refuelling (Continued)
Closing the Fuel Fill Cap
a After refuelling, close the fuel fill cap
Operation Guide securely.
b Insert the breather tube into the steering
stem nut.
3 WARNING
Petrol is highly flammable and
explosive. You can be burned or
seriously injured when handling fuel.
• Stop the engine, and keep heat,
sparks, and flames away.
• Only handle fuel outdoors.
• Wipe up spills immediately.
34
Maintenance
Please read “Importance of Maintenance”, “Maintenance Fundamentals” and “Competition
Handbook” carefully before attempting any maintenance. Refer to “Competition
Handbook” for service data.
Importance of Maintenance ........................... P. 36
Maintenance Schedule..................................... P. 38
Maintenance Fundamentals ........................... P. 42
Removing & Installing Body Components.. P. 51
Battery .................................................................... P. 51
Left Side Cover..................................................... P. 53
Importance of Maintenance
Importance of Maintenance  |  Maintenance Safety
Keeping your vehicle well-maintained is  |  Always read the maintenance instructions
absolutely essential to your safety and to  |  before you begin each task and make sure that
protect your investment, obtain maximum  |  you have the tools, parts, and skills required.
Maintenance
performance, avoid breakdowns, and reduce air  |  We cannot warn you of every conceivable
pollution. Maintenance is the owner's  |  hazard that can arise in performing
responsibility. Be sure to inspect your vehicle  |  maintenance. Only you can decide whether or
before each ride and perform the periodic  |  not you should perform a given task.
checks specified in the Maintenance Schedule.
2 P. 38  |  Follow these guidelines when performing
maintenance.
3 WARNING
● Stop the engine.
Improperly maintaining your vehicle or  |  ● CRF250RX
failing to correct a problem before you  |  Place your vehicle on a firm, level surface
ride can cause a crash in which you can  |  using the side stand, an optional workstand
be seriously hurt or killed.  |  or a maintenance stand to provide support.
CRF250R/RWE
Place your vehicle on a firm, level surface
Always follow the inspection and
using an optional workstand or a
maintenance recommendations and
maintenance stand to provide support.
schedules in this owner's manual and
competition handbook.
36
Importance of Maintenance
● Allow the engine, muffler, brakes, and other
high-temperature parts to cool before
servicing as you can get burned.
● Run the engine only when instructed, and
do so in a well-ventilated area.  |  Maintenance
37
Maintenance Schedule
To maintain the safety and reliability of your  |  CRF250RX
vehicle, regular inspection and service is  |  Service intervals in the maintenance schedule
required as shown in the Maintenance Schedule  |  are expressed in terms of races and riding
that follows.  |  hours. To avoid overlooking required service,
Maintenance  |  we urge you to develop a convenient way to
The Maintenance Schedule lists items that can  |  record the number of races and/or hours you
be performed with basic mechanical skills and  |  ride.
hand tools. Procedures for these items are  |  CRF250R/RWE
provided in Competition Handbook. The  |  Service intervals in the maintenance schedule
Maintenance Schedule also includes items that  |  are expressed in terms of heats and riding
involve more extensive procedures and may  |  hours. To avoid overlooking required service,
require special training, tools, and equipment.  |  we urge you to develop a convenient way to
Therefore, we recommend that you have your  |  record the number of heats and/or hours you
dealer perform these tasks unless you have  |  ride.
advanced mechanical skills and the required
tools. Procedures for items in this schedule are  |  If you do not feel capable of performing a given
provided in an official Honda Shop Manual  |  task or need assistance, remember that your
available for purchase from your dealer.  |  Honda dealer knows your vehicle best and is
fully equipped to maintain and repair it. If you
decide to do your own maintenance, use only
Honda Genuine Parts or their equivalents for
repair or replacement to ensure the best quality
and reliability.
38
Maintenance Schedule
Perform the Pre-ride Inspection ( 2 P. 42) at each scheduled maintenance period.
Each race or  |  Every 3 races or Every 6 races or Every 9 races or Every 12 races or
CRF250R/RWE
FREQUENCY  |  about 2.5 hours about 7.5 hours about 15.0 hours about 22.5 hours about 30.0 hours
NOTE
ITEMS  |  Each race or  |  Every 2 races or Every 4 races or Every 6 races or Every 8 races or
CRF250RX
about 3.5 hours about 7.5 hours about 15.0 hours about 22.5 hours about 30.0 hours
Fuel Line  |  NOTE 6
Maintenance
Fuel Pump Filter  |  NOTE 6
Throttle Operation
Air Filter  |  NOTE 1
Crankcase Breather
Spark Plug
Valve Clearance/Decompressor
NOTE 4
System
Engine Oil  |  NOTE 3, 5
Engine Oil Filter  |  NOTE 3
Engine Idle Speed
WE RECOMMEND THESE ITEMS BE SERVICED BY REFERRING TO THE OFFICIAL HONDA SHOP
MANUAL.
This maintenance schedule is based upon average riding condition. Machine subjected to severe use
require more frequent servicing.
Maintenance Legend
: Inspect (clean, adjust, lubricate, or replace, if necessary)
: Lubricate
: Replace
: Clean
Continued 39
Maintenance Schedule
Each race or  |  Every 3 races or Every 6 races or Every 9 races or Every 12 races or
CRF250R/RWE
FREQUENCY  |  about 2.5 hours about 7.5 hours about 15.0 hours about 22.5 hours about 30.0 hours
NOTE
ITEMS  |  Each race or  |  Every 2 races or Every 4 races or Every 6 races or Every 8 races or
CRF250RX
about 3.5 hours about 7.5 hours about 15.0 hours about 22.5 hours about 30.0 hours
Piston and Piston Rings
Piston Pin
Maintenance
Radiator Coolant  |  NOTE 2
Cooling System
Drive Chain
Drive Chain Slider
Drive Chain Roller
Drive Sprocket
Driven Sprocket
Brake Fluid  |  NOTE 2
Brake Pads Wear
Brake System
40
Maintenance Schedule
Each race or  |  Every 3 races or Every 6 races or Every 9 races or Every 12 races or
CRF250R/RWE
FREQUENCY  |  about 2.5 hours about 7.5 hours about 15.0 hours about 22.5 hours about 30.0 hours
NOTE
ITEMS  |  Each race or  |  Every 2 races or Every 4 races or Every 6 races or Every 8 races or
CRF250RX
about 3.5 hours about 7.5 hours about 15.0 hours about 22.5 hours about 30.0 hours
Clutch Fluid (Only RWE type)  |  NOTE 2
Clutch System  |  NOTE 5
Maintenance
Control Cables
Exhaust Pipe/Muffler
Suspension
Swingarm/Shock Linkage
Fork Oil  |  NOTE 3
Nuts, Bolts, Fasteners
Wheels/Tyres
Steering Head Bearings
Side Stand  |  NOTE 7
Notes: 1 : Clean after every heat/race for dusty riding condition.  |  4 : Inspect after the first break-in ride.
2 : Replace every 2 years. Replacement requires  |  5 : Replace the engine oil, if the clutch discs and
mechanical skill.  |  plates are replaced.
3 : Replace after the first break-in ride.  |  6 : Replace every year.
7 : Only RX type.
41
Maintenance Fundamentals
Pre-ride Inspection  |  ● Clutch lever freeplay
● Breather drain for cleaning
To ensure safety, it is your responsibility to
● Steering head bearing and related parts for
perform a pre-ride inspection and make sure
condition
that any problem you find is corrected. A pre-
Maintenance  |  ● Throttle operation
ride inspection is a must, not only for safety, but
● Tyres for damage or improper inflation pressure
because having a breakdown, or even a flat
● Spokes for looseness
tyre, can be a major inconvenience.
● Rim locks for looseness
Refer to the Competition Handbook for procedures.  |  ● Front and rear suspension for proper operation
● Front and rear brakes, check operation
Competitive riding can be tough on a vehicle,  |  ● Drive chain for correct slack and adequate
so it’s important to inspect your vehicle and  |  lubrication
correct any problems you find before each ride.  |  ● Drive chain sliders and drive chain rollers for
damage or wear
● Exhaust pipe/Muffler for looseness
Check the following before each ride:
● Every possible part for looseness (such as
● Engine oil level
cylinder head bolts, engine mounting bolts/
● Fuel line for condition
nuts, axle nuts, handlebar holder bolts, fork
● Coolant for proper level
bridge pinch bolts, drive chain adjuster, lock
● Cooling system and hoses for condition
nuts, drive chain roller bolt/nut, wire harness
● Spark plug for proper heat range, carbon  |  connectors)
fouling and spark plug wire terminal for  |  PGM-FI malfunction indicator lamp (MIL)
●
looseness  |  operation
● Air cleaner for condition and contamination
42
Maintenance Fundamentals
Between Races/Heats & Practice
Maintenance
CRF250RX
After practice, or between races, you have a
Maintenance
chance to make additional checks and
adjustments.
CRF250R/RWE
After practice, or between heats, you have a
chance to make additional checks and
adjustments.
• Clean accumulated dirt from under the  |  • Check to make sure the sprocket bolts and
fenders and off the wheels, suspension  |  nuts are secure.
components, handgrips, controls, and  |  • Clean the sides of the drive chain with a stiff,
footpegs. A stiff, nylon parts cleaning brush  |  nylon parts-cleaning brush. Lubricate and
works well.  |  adjust the chain as necessary.
• Check tyre air pressure.  |  Do not perform maintenance while the engine
• Check spoke tension, and make sure the rim  |  is running. Injury to your fingers or hands may
locks are secure.  |  result.
Continued 43
Maintenance Fundamentals
• After adjustment, check that the chain  |  • Suspend the front wheel above the ground
adjuster index marks are in the same  |  and use the pressure release screws to
position on each side. This will ensure that  |  release the built-up pressure in the forks.
the rear wheel is in proper alignment and  |  This pressure is caused by normal fork
Maintenance allow maximum performance from the rear  |  action while riding.
disc brake.
Pressure release screw
Maintaining proper wheel alignment will also
extend brake pad lifespan.
Chain adjuster index marks
Tighten the pressure release screw to the
specified torque:
Torque: 1.3 N·m (0.1 kgf·m, 1.0 lbf·ft)
44
Maintenance Fundamentals
After Competition Maintenance  |  Take care to prevent catching your fingers
between the chain and sprocket.
It is important to the long term performance of
your vehicle to practice a consistent
Remove the drive chain, and clean and lubricate it.
maintenance program. Right after an event is a
Be sure the chain is wiped clean and is dry  |  Maintenance
good time to begin your next maintenance
before lubricating the chain.
cycle.
# After Race Lubrication
Apply a light coating of rust-inhibiting oil to the
drive sprocket and any steel portions of the
chassis or engine where the paint has worn
away.
This will prevent rusting of the exposed metal.
Apply rust-inhibiting oil more heavily if the
event was particularly wet or muddy. Take care
to avoid spraying any oil near the brake pads or
the brake discs.
# Routine Cleaning
If your vehicle is only slightly dirty, it is best to
clean it by hand with the aid of a stiff bristled
nylon brush and some clean rags.
Continued 45
Maintenance Fundamentals
Take care to prevent catching your fingers  |  Replacing Parts
between the chain and sprocket.
Always use Honda Genuine Parts or their
equivalents to ensure reliability and safety.
A variety of reasonably priced cleaning brushes
Maintenance are available from variety, drug, food, and
hardware stores. Some of these brushes are  |  3 WARNING
extremely useful in removing dirt from the many
Installing non-Honda parts may make
tight contours of the metal pieces of your
vehicle.  |  your vehicle unsafe and cause a crash in
Avoid using stiff, abrasive brushes on the plastic  |  which you can be seriously hurt or
or rubber parts.  |  killed.
If your vehicle was exposed to sea air or salt  |  Always use Honda Genuine Parts or
water, rinse it as soon as possible after the  |  equivalents that have been designed
event, dry it, and apply a spray lubricant to all  |  and approved for your vehicle.
metal parts.
If you decide to wash your vehicle or use
cleaners, refer to "Caring for Your Vehicle".
2 P. 61
46
Maintenance Fundamentals
Lithium-Ion (Li-Ion) Battery  |  ● Electrolyte splashes into your mouth
u Rinse mouth thoroughly with water, and
Your vehicle has a lithium-ion (li-ion) battery.  |  do not swallow.
Clean the battery terminals if they become dirty
or corroded.  |  3 WARNING
This symbol on the battery means that  |  Maintenance
The battery contains flammable organic
this product must not be treated as
solvent as electrolyte.
household waste.
NOTICE  |  You can be burned or seriously injured
An improperly disposed of battery can be  |  if the battery is handled improperly.
harmful to the environment and human health.
Always confirm local regulations for proper
● Keep the battery away from heat,
battery disposal instruction.
sparks, and flames.
# What to do in an emergency  |  ● Keep the battery out of the reach of
If any of the following occurs, immediately see  |  children.
your doctor.
● Do not disassemble or modify the
● Electrolyte splashes into your eyes:
battery or battery terminals.
u Wash your eyes repeatedly with cool
● Do not short-circuit the battery with
water for at 15 minutes. Using water
under pressure can damage your eyes.  |  metal tools or other metal objects.
● Electrolyte splashes onto your skin:  |  ● Do not subject the battery to
u Remove affected clothing and wash your  |  impacts.
skin thoroughly using water.
Continued 47
Maintenance Fundamentals
# Cleaning the Battery Terminals  |  NOTICE
1. Remove the battery. 2 P. 51  |  Installing non-Honda electrical accessories can
2. If the terminals are starting to corrode and  |  overload the electrical system, discharging the
are coated with a white substance, wash  |  battery and possibly damaging the system.
Maintenance with warm water and wipe clean.
3. If the terminals are heavily corroded, clean  |  Fuses
and polish the terminals with a wire brush or
Fuses protect the electrical circuits on your
sandpaper. Wear safety glasses.
vehicle. If something electrical on your vehicle
stops working, check for and replace any blown
fuses. 2 P. 58
# Inspecting and Replacing Fuses
Turn the engine off to remove and inspect the
fuses. If a fuse is blown, replace with a fuse of
the same rating. For fuse ratings, see
“Specifications.” 2 P. 74
4. After cleaning, reinstall the battery.
Blown fuse
The battery has a limited life span. Consult your
dealer about when you should replace the
battery. Always replace the battery with another
lithium-ion (li-ion) battery of the same type.
48
Maintenance Fundamentals
NOTICE  |  tread. Also inspect for any unusual bumps or
Replacing a fuse with one that has a higher rating greatly  |  bulges in the side walls of the tyres.
increases the chance of damage to the electrical system.
# Inspecting for Abnormal Wear
If a fuse fails repeatedly, you likely have an  |  Inspect the tyres for signs of abnormal wear on
Maintenance
electrical fault. Have your vehicle inspected by  |  the contact surface.
your dealer.
# Inspecting Rims and Valve Stems
Tyres (Inspecting/Replacing)  |  Inspect the rims for damage and loose spokes.
# Checking the Air Pressure  |  Also inspect the valve stems for their positions.
Visually inspect your tyres and use an air  |  A tilted valve stem indicates the tube is slipping
pressure gauge to measure the air pressure  |  inside the tyre or the tyre is slipping on the rim.
before each ride.  |  See your dealer.
Always check air pressure when your tyres are
cold.  |  3 WARNING
If you decide to adjust the tyre pressure for a  |  Riding on tyres that are excessively worn
particular riding condition, make changes a little  |  or improperly inflated can cause a crash
at a time.  |  in which you can be seriously hurt or
killed.
# Inspecting for Damage
Inspect the tyres for cuts, slits, or cracks that
Follow all instructions in this owner's
expose fabric or cords, or nails or other foreign
manual regarding tyre inflation and
objects embedded in the side of the tyre or the
maintenance.
Continued 49
Maintenance Fundamentals
Have your tyres replaced by your dealer.
3 WARNING
For recommended tyres and air pressure, see
“Specifications.” 2 P. 72  |  Installing improper tyres on your
Follow these guidelines whenever you replace  |  vehicle can adversely affect handling
Maintenance tyres:  |  and stability, and can cause a crash in
● Use the recommended tyres or their  |  which you can be seriously hurt or
equivalents of the same size, construction,  |  killed.
speed rating, and load range.
● Remember to replace the inner tube
Always use the size and type of tyres
whenever you replace a tyre. The old tube
recommended in this owner's manual.
will probably be stretched, and it could fail if
installed in a new tyre.
● If a tube is punctured or damaged, you
should replace it as soon as possible. A
repaired tube may not have the same
reliability as a new one, and it may fail while
you are riding.
Use a replacement tube equivalent to the
original.
50
Removing & Installing Body Components
Battery  |  Battery
-mark
Negative terminal  |  Battery lid  |  Negative
terminal
Battery assembly  |  +mark
Maintenance
Positive
terminal  |  Battery rubber
# Removal
1. Remove the battery lid by removing the
bolts.
2. Disconnect the negative - terminal from
the battery.
3. Disconnect the positive + terminal from
the battery.
Battery band  |  Bolts
4. Remove the battery band.
Positive terminal  |  5. Remove the battery assembly, taking care
not to drop the terminal nuts.
6. Separate the battery and battery rubber.
Continued 51
Removing & Installing Body Components u Battery
# Installation  |  6. Install the battery lid and tighten the bolts
to the specified torque:
1. Assemble the battery and battery rubber.
u Make sure the + and - marks on the  |  Torque: 5.2 N·m (0.5 kgf·m, 3.8 lbf·ft)
bottom of the battery rubber align
Maintenance
with the positive + and negative - of
For proper handling of the battery, see
the battery terminals.
“Maintenance Fundamentals.” 2 P. 47
2. Install the battery assembly.
“Battery Goes Dead.” 2 P. 57
3. Install and tighten the battery terminal
bolts. Always connect the positive +
terminal first. Make sure that bolts and
nuts are tight.
4. Tighten the positive + terminal bolt and
negative - terminal bolt to the specified
torque:
Torque: 2.0 N·m (0.2 kgf·m, 1.5 lbf·ft)
5. Install the battery band.
52
Removing & Installing Body Components u Left Side Cover
Left Side Cover  |  # Installation
1. Install the left side cover by sliding it
Groove  |  forward.
Hook
Slot  |  Left side  |  u Make sure that align the hook with the
cover  |  Maintenance
groove of the rear fender and tab with
the slot of the radiator shroud.
2. Install the left side cover bolt and tighten
it to the specified torque:
Torque: 10 N·m (1.0 kgf·m, 7 lbf·ft)
Tab  |  Left side cover bolt
# Removal
1. Remove the left side cover bolt.
2. Remove the left side cover by sliding it
backward.
53
Troubleshooting
Engine Will Not Start........................................ P. 55
Warning Indicators On or Flashing............... P. 56
PGM-FI (Programmed Fuel Injection)
Malfunction Indicator Lamp (MIL)................. P. 56
Electrical Trouble ............................................... P. 57
Battery Goes Dead .............................................. P. 57
Blown Fuse ............................................................ P. 58
Engine Will Not Start
Starter Motor Operates But  |  Starter Motor Does Not
Engine Does Not Start  |  Operate
Check the following items:  |  Check the following items:
● Check the correct engine starting  |  ● Check the correct engine starting
sequence. 2 P. 28  |  sequence. 2 P. 28  |  Troubleshooting
● Check that there is petrol in the fuel tank.  |  ● Check for a blown fuse. 2 P. 58
● Check if the PGM-FI malfunction indicator  |  ● Check for a loose battery connection
lamp (MIL) is on.  |  ( 2 P. 51) or battery terminal corrosion
( 2 P. 48).
● Check the condition of the battery.
2 P. 57
If the problem continues, have your vehicle
inspected by your dealer as soon as possible
or refer to an official Honda Shop Manual
available for purchase from your dealer.
55
Warning Indicators On or Flashing
PGM-FI (Programmed Fuel
Injection) Malfunction
Indicator Lamp (MIL)
If the indicator comes on while riding, you
Troubleshooting
may have a serious problem with the PGM-FI
system.
Reduce speed and have your vehicle
inspected by your dealer as soon as possible
or refer to an official Honda Shop Manual
available for purchase from your dealer.
56
Electrical Trouble
Battery Goes Dead  |  If the battery does not recover after
recharging, contact your dealer.
Battery charging is needed.
NOTICE
A battery charger recommended by your  |  Do not jump-start, as this can damage your
lithium-ion (li-ion) battery manufacturer is  |  vehicle's electrical system and battery.
needed for battery charging.
Troubleshooting
Contact your dealer before charging the
battery.
Remove the battery from the vehicle before
charging.
NOTICE
Only use a charger recommended by your
lithium-ion (li-ion) battery manufacturer. Using a
battery charger that is not recommended can
cause permanent damage to your battery.
57
Electrical Trouble u Blown Fuse
Blown Fuse  |  3. Pull the tab of the ECM rubber and
remove the ECM from the air cleaner
Before handling fuses, see “Inspecting and  |  housing.
Replacing Fuses.” 2 P. 48  |  4. Remove the starter magnetic switch stay
bolt.
# Main fuse  |  5. Pull back the coupler cover.
Troubleshooting
1. Remove the left side cover. 2 P. 53  |  6. Disconnect the connector from the starter
2. Disconnect the negative - terminal from  |  magnetic switch.
the battery. 2 P. 51  |  7. Remove the starter magnetic switch
cover.
ECM rubber
8. Pull the main fuse and check for a blown
fuse. Always replace a blown fuse with a
spare of the same rating.
ECM
Tab
Starter magnetic switch stay bolt
58
Electrical Trouble u Blown Fuse
Starter magnetic  |  9. Install the starter magnetic switch cover.
Coupler cover  |  switch cover  |  10. Install the connector and coupler cover.
11. Install and tighten the starter magnetic
switch stay bolt.
12. Install the ECM and ECM rubber to the air
cleaner housing.
Troubleshooting
13. Connect the negative - terminal to the
battery. 2 P. 52
14. Install the left side cover. 2 P. 53
NOTICE
If a fuse fails repeatedly, you likely have an
Main fuse  |  electrical problem. Have your vehicle inspected
by your dealer.
Connector
Spare main fuse
Starter magnetic switch
59
Information
Caring for Your Vehicle.................................... P. 61
Storing Your Vehicle......................................... P. 65
Transporting Your Vehicle .............................. P. 66
You & the Environment.................................... P. 68
Serial Numbers................................................... P. 69
Fuels Containing Alcohol................................. P. 70
Caring for Your Vehicle
Caring for Your Vehicle  |  maroon is for removing stains on the
non-coated aluminium frame only.
Frequent cleaning and polishing is important to  |  3. Thoroughly rinse your vehicle with plenty of
ensure the life of your Honda. A clean vehicle  |  clean water and dry with a soft, clean cloth.
makes it easier to spot potential problems.  |  4. After the vehicle dries, lubricate any moving
While you're cleaning, be sure to look for  |  parts.
damage, wear, and petrol or oil leaks.  |  u Make sure that no lubricant spills onto
the brakes or tyres. Brake discs, pads,
Washing  |  Information
drum or shoes contaminated with oil will
Allow the engine, muffler, brakes, and other  |  suffer greatly reduced braking
high-temperature parts to cool before washing.  |  effectiveness and can lead to a crash.
1. Rinse your vehicle thoroughly using a low  |  5. Lubricate the drive chain immediately after
pressure garden hose to remove loose dirt.  |  washing and drying the vehicle.
2. If necessary, use a sponge or a soft towel  |  6. Apply a coat of wax to prevent corrosion.
with mild cleaner to remove road grime.  |  u Avoid products that contain harsh
u Clean the plastic components with extra  |  detergents or chemical solvents. These
care to avoid scratching them.  |  can damage the metal, paint, and plastic
Avoid directing water into the air cleaner,  |  on your vehicle.
muffler, and electrical parts.  |  Keep the wax clear of the tyres and brakes.
u Do not use steel wool to clean the frame  |  u If your vehicle has any mat painted parts,
as it could damage or discolor the frame  |  do not apply a coat of wax to the mat
surface. Scotch Brite Hand Pad #7447-  |  painted surface.
Continued 61
Caring for Your Vehicle
# Washing Precautions  |  Steering head bearings
Follow these guidelines when washing:
● Do not use high-pressure washers:
u High-pressure water cleaners can
damage moving parts and electrical
parts, rendering them inoperable.
u Water in the air intake can be drawn into
the throttle body and/or enter the air
Information
cleaner.
u If you use a high pressure washer, avoid
spraying the following areas:  |  Suspension pivot points
brake master cylinders
● Do not direct water at the muffler:
clutch master cylinder (Only RWE type)
u Water in the muffler can prevent starting
drive chain
and causes rust in the muffler.
electrical circuit
● Dry the brakes:
engine stop button
u Water adversely affects braking
muffler outlet
effectiveness. After washing, apply the
steering head bearings
brakes intermittently at low speed to
suspension pivot points
help dry them.
throttle body
● Do not direct water at the air cleaner:
under fuel tank
u Water in the air cleaner can prevent the
under seat
engine from starting.
62
Caring for Your Vehicle
● Do not use wax or polishing compounds on  |  NOTICE
mat painted surfaces:  |  Do not use steel wool to clean the frame as it
u Use a soft cloth or sponge, plenty of  |  could damage or discolor the frame surface.
water, and a mild detergent to clean mat  |  Scotch Brite Hand Pad #7447-maroon is for
painted surfaces. Dry with a soft clean  |  removing stains on the non-coated aluminium
cloth.  |  frame only.
Aluminium Frame Maintenance  |  Titanium Fuel Tank Maintenance
Aluminium corrodes when it comes in contact  |  Information
CRF250R/RWE
with dust, mud and road salt.  |  The fuel tank is made of titanium material.
To remove mud or dust, use a sponge or soft
To remove stains, use Scotch Brite Hand Pad  |  cloth and a stainless steel kitchen detergent,
#7447 (maroon) or an equivalent. Wet the pad  |  then rinse well with clean water.
and polish the surface using strokes parallel to  |  After washing, rinse with plenty of water and dry
the length of the frame.  |  with a clean cloth.
Clean the frame using a wet sponge and a mild
detergent, then rinse well with clean water. Dry
the frame with a soft clean cloth, using strokes
parallel to the length of the frame.
Continued 63
Caring for Your Vehicle
Exhaust Pipe and Muffler  |  CRF250RWE
The exhaust pipe and muffler are titanium but
CRF250R/RX
may become stained by mud or dust.
The exhaust pipe and muffler are stainless steel
but may become stained by mud or dust.
To remove mud or dust, use a wet sponge and
a liquid kitchen abrasive, then rinse well with
To remove mud or dust, use a wet sponge and
clean water. Dry with chamois or a soft towel.
a liquid kitchen abrasive, then rinse well with
Information clean water. Dry with chamois or a soft towel.
If necessary, remove heat stains by using a
commercially available fine texture compound.
If necessary, remove heat stains by using a
Then, rinse by the same manner as removing
commercially available fine texture compound.
mud or dust.
Then, rinse by the same manner as removing
mud or dust.  |  NOTICE
Even though the exhaust is made of titanium, it
NOTICE
can become stained. Remove all marks and
Even though the exhaust is made of stainless
blemishes as soon as they are noticed.
steel, it can become stained. Remove all marks
and blemishes as soon as they are noticed.
64
Storing Your Vehicle
Storing Your Vehicle  |  ● Store your vehicle in an unheated area, free
of dampness, away from sunlight, with a
If you won't be riding for an extended period,  |  minimum of daily temperature variation.
follow these guidelines:  |  ● Cover your vehicle with a porous material.
● Wash your vehicle.  |  Avoid using plastic or similar non-breathing,
● Drain the coolant.  |  coated materials that restrict air flow and
● Lubricate the drive chain.  |  allow heat and moisture to accumulate.
● Place your vehicle on an optional workstand
or equivalent to raise both tyres off the  |  Information
ground.
● Relieve the fuel pressure and drain the fuel
from the fuel tank into an approved petrol
container.
● Remove the battery ( 2 P. 51) to prevent
discharge. Fully charge the battery and then
place it in a shaded, well-ventilated area.
u If you leave the battery in place,
disconnect the negative - terminal to
prevent discharge.
● Stuff a rag into the muffler outlet. Then, tie a
plastic bag over the end of the muffler to
prevent moisture from entering.
Continued 65
Transporting Your Vehicle
To remove your vehicle from storage, follow  |  Transporting Your Vehicle
these guidelines:
● Uncover and clean your vehicle.  |  If your vehicle needs to be transported, it
● Change the engine oil if more than 4  |  should be carried on a motorcycle trailer or a
months have passed since the start of  |  flatbed truck or trailer that has a loading ramp
storage.  |  or lifting platform and motorcycle tie-down
● Uncover the end of the muffler and remove  |  straps. Never try to tow your vehicle with a
the rag from the muffler outlet.  |  wheel or wheels on the ground.
Information ● Fill the fuel tank with the recommended fuel.
NOTICE
2 P. 33
Towing your vehicle with a wheel or wheels on
● Charge the battery as required. 2 P. 47  |  the ground can cause serious damage to the
Install the battery.  |  transmission.
● Pour a fresh recommended coolant mixture
slowly into the radiator fill hole up to the
filler neck.
● Increase the fuel pressure.
● Perform all maintenance checks. 2 P. 42
66
Transporting Your Vehicle
If you use a truck or motorcycle trailer to  |  To secure your vehicle, brace the front wheel
transport your vehicle, we recommend that you  |  against the front of the truck bed or trailer rail.
follow these guidelines:  |  Attach the lower ends of two straps to the tie-
● Use a loading ramp.  |  down hooks on truck bed or trailer rail. Attach
● Relieve the fuel pressure and drain the fuel  |  the upper ends of the straps to the handlebar
from the fuel tank into an approved petrol  |  (one on the right side, the other on the left),
container.  |  close to the fork.
● Secure the vehicle in an upright position,
using motorcycle tie-down straps. Avoid  |  Check that the tie-down straps do not contact  |  Information
using rope, which can loosen and allow the  |  any control cables or electrical wiring.
vehicle to fall over.
Tighten both straps until the front suspension is
compressed about half-way. Too much pressure
is unnecessary and could damage the fork seals.
Use another tie-down strap to keep the rear of
the vehicle from moving.
We recommend that you do not transport your
vehicle on its side. This can damage the vehicle,
and leaking petrol could be a hazard.
67
You & the Environment
You & the Environment  |  Recycle Wastes
Put oil and other toxic wastes in approved
Owning and riding a vehicle can be enjoyable,
containers and take them to a recycling centre.
but you must do your part to protect the
Call your local or state office of public works or
environment.
environmental services to find a recycling centre
Choose Sensible Cleaners  |  in your area and to get instructions on how to
dispose of non-recyclable wastes. Do not place
Use a biodegradable detergent when you wash
Information  |  used engine oil in the trash or pour it down a
your vehicle. Avoid aerosol spray cleaners that
drain or on the ground. Used oil, petrol,
contain chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) which
coolant, and cleaning solvents contain poisons
damage the atmosphere's protective ozone
that can hurt refuse workers and contaminate
layer.
drinking water, lakes, rivers, and oceans.
68
Serial Numbers
Serial Numbers
The frame and engine serial numbers uniquely
identify your vehicle and are required in order
to register your vehicle. They may also be
required when ordering replacement parts.
You should record these numbers and keep
them in a safe place.  |  Information
Frame number
Engine number
69
Fuels Containing Alcohol
Fuels Containing Alcohol  |  The use of petrol containing more than 10%
ethanol may:
Except Brazil  |  ● Damage the painting of the fuel tank.
Some conventional fuels blended with alcohol  |  ● Damage the rubber tubes of the fuel line.
are available in some locales to help reduce  |  ● Cause corrosion of the fuel tank.
emissions to meet clean air standards. If you  |  ● Cause poor drivability.
plan to use blended fuel, check that it is
NOTICE
unleaded and meets the minimum octane
Information  |  Use of blended fuels containing higher than
rating requirement.
approved percentages can damage metal,
rubber, plastic parts of your fuel system.
The following fuel blends can be used in your
vehicle:  |  If you notice any undesirable operating
● Ethanol (ethyl alcohol) up to 10% by volume.  |  symptoms or performance problems, try a
u Petrol containing ethanol may be  |  different brand of petrol.
marketed under the name Gasohol.
70
Specifications
■ Dimension  |  CRF250RX  |  116 mm (4.6 in)
CRF250RX  |  2,178 mm (85.7 in)  |  Trail length  |  CRF250R  |  117 mm (4.6 in)
Overall length  |  CRF250R  |  2,179 mm (85.8 in)  |  CRF250RWE  |  115 mm (4.5 in)
CRF250RWE  |  2,189 mm (86.2 in)
CRF250RX  |  839 mm (33.0 in)
Overall width
CRF250R/RWE 827 mm (32.6 in)
CRF250RX  |  1,278 mm (50.3 in)
Overall height  |  CRF250R  |  1,262 mm (49.7 in)
CRF250RWE  |  1,265 mm (49.8 in)
CRF250RX  |  1,478 mm (58.2 in)
Wheelbase
CRF250R/RWE 1,483 mm (58.1 in)  |  Specifications
CRF250RX  |  958 mm (37.7 in)
Seat height  |  CRF250R  |  955 mm (37.6 in)
CRF250RWE  |  962 mm (37.9 in)
CRF250RX  |  424 mm (16.7 in)
Footpeg height  |  CRF250R  |  422 mm (16.6 in)
CRF250RWE  |  427 mm (16.8 in)
CRF250RX  |  331 mm (13.0 in)
Minimum ground
CRF250R  |  330 mm (13.0 in)
clearance
CRF250RWE  |  334 mm (13.1 in)
CRF250RX  |  27°26'
ED, U type 28°24'
Caster angle  |  CRF250R
GS, LA, MX type 27°33'
CRF250RWE  |  27°14'
71
Specifications
■ Frame  |  8.0 L (2.11 US gal,
CRF250RX
CRF250RX  |  90/90-21 54M  |  1.76 Imp gal)
Fuel tank capacity
80/100-21 M/C 51M  |  6.3 L (1.66 US gal,
Front CRF250R  |  CRF250R/RWE
MST  |  1.39 Imp gal)
Tyre size  |  CRF250RWE  |  80/100-21 51M
CRF250RX  |  110/100-18 64M
Rear  |  CRF250R  |  100/90-19 57M NHS
CRF250RWE  |  110/90-19 62M
Tyre type  |  Bias-ply, tube
CRF250RX  |  DUNLOP AT81F
PIRELLI SCORPION
Specifications  |  Front CRF250R
MX32 MID SOFT
Recommended  |  CRF250RWE  |  DUNLOP MX33F
tyre  |  CRF250RX  |  DUNLOP AT81
PIRELLI SCORPION
Rear  |  CRF250R
MX32 MID SOFT
CRF250RWE  |  DUNLOP MX33
Tyre pressure Front 100 kPa (1.0 kgf/cm 2 , 15 psi)
(cold)  |  Rear  |  100 kPa (1.0 kgf/cm 2 , 15 psi)
Unleaded petrol, research octane number of
Fuel
95 or higher
Except Brazil
Fuel containing alcohol
ETHANOL up to 10 % by volume
72
Specifications
■ Engine  |  ■ Cooling system
Bore x stroke  |  79.000 x 50.887 mm (3.1102 x 2.0034 in)  |  Pro Honda HP Coolant
Recommended
Displacement  |  249.43 cm 3 (15.215 cu-in)  |  Philippines, Vietnam
coolant
Compression  |  HONDA PRE-MIX COOLANT
13.9 : 1
ratio  |  1.04 L (1.10 US qt, 0.92
After draining
0.10 ± 0.03 mm (0.004  |  Imp qt)
Intake  |  Cooling capacity
Valve clearance  |  ± 0.001 in)  |  After  |  1.15 L (1.22 US qt, 1.01
(cold)  |  0.20 ± 0.03 mm (0.008  |  disassembly  |  Imp qt)
Exhaust
± 0.001 in)
Honda 4-stroke motorcycle oil API Service  |  ■ Drive train
Classification SJ or higher, excluding oils  |  Primary reduction  |  3.047
Recommended
marked as “Energy Conserving” or “Resource  |  1st  |  2.384  |  Specifications
engine oil
Conserving,” SAE 10W-30, JASO T 903  |  2nd  |  1.933
standard MA
Gear ratio  |  3rd  |  1.600
1.05 L (1.11 US qt, 0.92
After draining  |  4th  |  1.350
Imp qt)
5th  |  1.153
After draining
Engine oil  |  1.08 L (1.14 US qt, 0.95  |  Final reduction  |  3.846
and oil filter
capacity  |  Imp qt)  |  Left foot-operated return system
change  |  Gear shift pattern
1-N-2-3-4-5
After  |  1.35 L (1.43 US qt, 1.19
disassembly  |  Imp qt)
Idle speed  |  2,000 ± 100 rpm
73
Specifications
■ Electrical
HJ12L lithium-ion (li-ion)
Battery
12 V-2.3 Ah (20 HR)
Spark plug  |  NGK SILMAR9A9S
Spark plug gap  |  0.8 - 0.9 mm (0.03 - 0.04 in)
■ Fuses
Main fuse  |  10 A
■ Torque specifications
Fork air pressure release screw 1.3 N·m (0.1 kgf·m, 1.0 lbf·ft)
Specifications Battery terminal bolt  |  2.0 N·m (0.2 kgf·m, 1.5 lbf·ft)
Battery lid bolt  |  5.2 N·m (0.5 kgf·m, 3.8 lbf·ft)
Left side cover bolt  |  10 N·m (1.0 kgf·m, 7 lbf·ft)
74
Specifications
Manufacturer, Authorised Representative and Importer
Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
Manufacturer  |  2-1-1 Minami-Aoyama, Minato-ku,
Tokyo 107-8556, JAPAN
Honda Motor Europe Ltd - Aalst Office
Authorised representative and
Wijngaardveld 1 (Noord V)
importer for EU market
9300 Aalst - Belgium
Honda Motor Europe Ltd
Authorised representative and
Cain Road, Bracknell, Berkshire,  |  Specifications
importer for UK market
RG12 1HL, United Kingdom
75
Online Owner’s Manual
https://www.hondamotopub.com/
32K95830  |  XXX.XXXX.XX.S
00X32-K95-8300  |  PRINTED IN XXXXX
